---
title: "Analyzing sentiments"
bg: introduction
color: black
fa-icon: meh-o
---

# How did people really feel towards Brexit? 

As a first step we classify the speakers based on the sentiment of their quotes. This will alow us to identify the opinion speakers have towards Brexit, and the percentages of positive and negative opinions they have. 

The Brexit process was triggered by the majority vote to leave in the 2016 referendum. However, this did not mean that the debate about Brexit was over. Polls suggest that voters remained divided on the issue even until the start of 2020. Therefore, it will be interesting to analyze people’s feelings towards the decision and understand if this ‘shock’ result was really that. 

To achieve this goal, we begin by classifying the speakers according to the sentiment of their quotes. This will help us identify the opinions that speakers have about Brexit and the percentages of positive and negative opinions that exist. To do so, we will use sentiment analysis. 

<div class="note">
  <p>Sentiment analysis is the use of natural language processing (NLP), text analysis, computational linguistics, and biometrics to systematically identify, extract, quantify, and study affective states and subjective information
    <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sentiment_analysis">(Wikipedia).</a>
  </p>
  <p>This process allows us to statistically work out whether a piece of text is positive, negative or neutral. 
  </p>
  <p>There are mainly two sentiment analysis approaches: </p>
  <ul>
    <li>Polarity-based: pieces of text are classified as either positive or negative. </li>
    <li>Valence-based: The intensity of the sentiment is taken into account.</li>
  </ul>  
  <p>We decided to use 
    <a href="http://comp.social.gatech.edu/papers/icwsm14.vader.hutto.pdf">VADER</a> 
    (Valence Aware Dictionary and sEntiment Reasoner) "a lexicon and rule-based sentiment analysis tool that is specifically attuned to sentiments expressed in social media, and works well on texts from other domains". 
  </p>
  <p>This library focuses on content found everywhere, and it is known for being effective at general use. VADER gives us a `compound` statistics which expresses the aggregated sentiment score of each quote.</p>
</div>

If we analyze the pie chart below, we can see that the results are quite close to reality. The percentage of negative opinions (35.2%) is less than that of the positive (51.1%), while there is a small percentage of neutral opinions (13.7%).

If we analyze the pie chart below, we can see that the results are quite close to reality. The global percentage of negative opinions (35.2%) is less than that of positive ones (51.1%), while there is a small percentage of neutral opinions (13.7%).

To make a smarter approach, we can take a look at the percentages within the UK. The results are quite similar: 50.9% positive, 36% negative and 13.1% neutral. This matches what we expected: the percentages are very similar to the previous ones, with a small increase in the negative sentiment and a decrease in the neutral sentiment. This represents how the atmosphere is slightly more polarized within the country.

<p align="center">
  <iframe style="margin:auto;display:block;" src="assets/fig_speaker_countries.html" width="90%" height="600" frameborder="0" style="border:0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>

It is also interesting to analyze how sentiment changes over the years. In the graph below, we can observe that positivity arises as the Brexit campaign progresses, reaching its highest point in 2017, once the decision was announced. However, during the negotiation period (2017-2020), it can be seen how this positivity decreases, which represents an increase in the negativity percentage. We will perform a deeper analysis in <a href="https://kava-project.github.io/#q4">Q4: Brexit over time.</a> 

<p align="center">
  <iframe style="margin:auto;display:block;" src="assets/fig_sentiment_years.html" width="90%" height="600" frameborder="0" style="border:0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>

### Conclusion opinions

