---
title: "Introduction"
bg: white
color: black
fa-icon: lightbulb-o
---

Using a lustrum’s worth of quotes data to determine how people felt towards Brexit.

# Abstract

The United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union, known as Brexit, is one of the most significant events of the 21st century. It has changed the whole life of millions of people, inside and outside the UK, with political, economic, and social consequences, among others.

Since the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom announced a referendum on the country's permanence in the European Union, it has been a long and complex process of ups and downs, with tough negotiations, and a variety of shifting opinions in all directions. 

The Brexit referendum had a very tight result (48.1% against-51.9% in favor) and participation of 72.2%. Although it was in 2016, the official exit was in 2020. Nonetheless, the process is not over yet, as the EU and the UK must negotiate new trade agreements, testing the union of the country towards the entire European Union.

Nevertheless, how could this happen? Can we know which are the main reasons? Which was the real feeling of the people about Brexit? How did important speakers had influenced the population? Fortunately, the Kava-ADA team has put itself in the shoes of investigative journalists, trying to clarify and obtain conclusions from data analysis of quotes.


# Goals

We have divided the project into four questions, that are our main goals:
- How did people really feel towards Brexit? 
- What arguments did the members of each group use to support their beliefs?
- Which are the dominant features of the speakers in each group?
- How did the opinion towards Brexit change during the 5-year span? Did the arguments of each group also change?


# Results

Summary of the results


# Data feasibility

The project is mainly based on the analysis of quotes from the Quotebank dataset. This data source is described best by its makers:
> Quotebank is a dataset of 178 million unique, speaker-attributed quotations that were extracted from 196 million English news articles crawled from over 377 thousand web domains between August 2008 and April 2020. The quotations were extracted and attributed using Quobert, a distantly and minimally supervised end-to-end, language-agnostic framework for quotation attribution.
(Vaucher, Timoté, Spitz, Andreas, Catasta, Michele, & West, Robert. (2021). Quotebank: A Corpus of Quotations from a Decade of News (1.0) [Data set]. Zenodo. https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4277311 (accessible on November 10, 2021))

In our case, we use data collected between January 2015 and April 2020. We decided to put the start date in 2015, as this was the year of the General Election in the United Kingdom, where the Conservative Party (which won the majority in the House of Commons) put a promise of an in-out referendum about the membership of the United Kingdom in the European Union. Then, we can study the effect during all these years, when many other events have happened around Brexit (such as the official leave of the UK on the 31st of January of 2020).

As well as Quotebank, we are using another dataset (Wikidata) to enrich the data of the speakers of the quotes. This dataset, meant primarily for use in Wikimedia projects like Wikipedia or Wiktionary, contains properties and references describing an item, i.e., a person or a country. Because Quotebank uses Wikidata QIDs to refer to speakers, we can easily link speakers to their attributes in Wikidata. Wikidata entries can contain an infinite number of features and references, so we have decided to use only a small number of attributes, which we can then use for demographic analysis. These attributes are gender, date of birth, nationality, occupation, political party, academic degree, political support, and religion.
