---
title: "Analyzing speakers"
bg: introduction
color: black
fa-icon: users
---

# Which are the dominant features of the speakers in each group?

<div class="note">
  <p> <b>Wikidata</b> is an open and free knowledge base that collects structured data to provide support to services such as Wikipedia. The repository contains mainly items, and each of them has a unique item identifier (QID). Quotebank (out main dataset), also contains this unique identifier (QID) for each of the speakers, so the connection between both datasets can be made easily through this common identifier.:</p>
  <p> We have matched each quote and obtained the following information about the speaker: gender, date of birth, nationality, occupation, political party, academic degree, political support, and religion</p>
</div>

First, we have represented the most active speakers by the number of quotes during the studied period. In the following plot we are representing three variables:
- **The mean of the sentiment of the quotes of the speaker** (axis x).
- **The standard deviation of the sentiment of the quotes of the speaker** (axis y). With this parameter, we can see how is the variation of the mean of each speaker. If the speaker bubble is more towards the top, it has a higher variation over the sentiment of its quotes.
- **The total number of quotes of the speaker** (size of the bubble of each speaker).
The first thing that we can observe is that the most active speakers are situated more on the right side, meaning that they have a more positive sentiment. On the other hand, there are no active speakers with a very negative sentiment about Brexit. This is a key point about our analysis because it means that the speakers that are more active (and therefore with a higher impact), have a more positive feeling about Brexit.
Secondly, we can observe some important speakers, such as Boris Jhonson or Theresa May, which are the most active ones. Feel free to explore the plot, and see the sentiment of each of the speakers.
<p align="center">
  <iframe style="margin:auto;display:block;" src="assets/fig_speakers_bubble.html" width="90%" height="600" frameborder="0" style="border:0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>

Now is time to see the geographical distribution of the quotes by the nationality of the speakers who wrote them. It is possible to filter the quotes by positive, negative, or neutral sentiment. Without many surprises, the most active country is the United Kingdom, followed by the United States. Remind that the dataset that we are using contains quotes in English, so there would be other quotes about Brexit from other countries in other languages.
<p align="center">
  <iframe style="margin:auto;display:block;" src="assets/fig_map.html" width="90%" height="600" frameborder="0" style="border:0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>

In the following plot, we show absolute values about different demographic characteristics of the speakers of the quotes, segmented by those belonging to positive and negative strong sentiment groups. We have only taken into mind speakers with a strong positive or negative sentiment. We have represented gender, occupation, and membership in a political party.
- **Gender:** in both cases, the percentage of males/females is almost equal, so we cannot see significant differences regarding the gender between speakers with a different sentiment toward Brexit. However, we can observe that in both cases the speakers are mainly male (above 80%), which shows that the current political environment is dominated by them.
 
In both occupation and political parties, the total number of speakers is larger in the case of strong positive sentiment (7379 speakers) than in strong negative sentiment (5233 speakers). As we have seen before in the Top-50 most active speakers (this is because the most active have a more positive sentiment toward Brexit).
- **Occupation:** in absolute numbers, all occupations have more strongly positive than strong negative speakers. We have also analyzed the percentages for each occupation inside each group (positive or negative), to obtain some differences between the two groups. We have seen that occupations such as economists, journalists, and writers have a significantly larger relative value of speakers with negative sentiments inside each group. Moreover, lawyers have a very little superior relative value of speakers with negative sentiments. We can obtain some information about that, especially about economists, as one of the most pessimistic issues about Brexit is the economic viability and consequences. On the other hand, politicians, actors, football players, researchers, businesspeople, or television actors' occupations have a slightly larger relative value of speakers with positive sentiments inside each group. We can suggest that perhaps speakers with occupations more related to the emotions (related to entertainment or sport) represent a greater percentage inside the positive group. However, maybe occupations related to reasoning and analysis of the situation about Brexit (such as economists) represent a greater percentage inside the negative group.
- **Political party:** in the same way as in the occupations, all political parties have an absolute larger number of speakers with strong positive sentiment. However, analyzing the percentages inside each of the groups (positive/negative), political parties such as Scottish National Party, Labour party, and Liberal Democrats have a greater percentage of negative speakers inside the negative group than positive speakers in the positive group.
<p align="center">
  <iframe style="margin:auto;display:block;" src="assets/fig_multiple.html" width="90%" height="600" frameborder="0" style="border:0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>
