---
title: "Brexit over time"
bg: white
color: black
fa-icon: calendar
---

# How did the opinion towards Brexit change during the 6-year span?

In previous sections, we discussed the overall picture of Brexit debate: what percentage of speakers supported or opposed Brexit, what were their arguments, and what were their demographics. However, this is just an overall picture, compressing six years of discussions and arguments into a single graph. But with media cycles, emerging topics, and constantly changing dynamics of a campaign (or later, negotiations and campaigns), it may be interesting to use previously stated questions and analyse them closer and how they may have changed over a span of time, with three periods considered together.

We will divide the analysis into three main eras:

-	**Before the referendum** (January 1st, 2015 — February 20th, 2016): It took some time before the official campaign began, on February 20, 2016 ([source](https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-politics-35621079)), but this does not mean that discussions around the topic of United Kingdom did not arise to this date. As mentioned above, a referendum vote between a newly negotiated agreement with the EU and leaving the Union has been promised in Conservative manifesto for 2015 election, so it may be interesting to look at how arguments and demographics have changed between the start of 2015 and referendum campaign start.
-	**The campaign** (February 21st, 2016 — June 23rd, 2016): as campaign progressed, from February 2016 to June 2016, we may see more organised messaging from both sides - as every side of the campaign was organised under two umbrella organisations, Britain Stronger In Europe and Vote Leave. This means that those who argue for their side can use resources of their umbrella organizations, alongside various party-oriented (like Labour Leave or Conservatives In) or independent organizations (like Leave.EU or Scientists for EU). This is also a time where both sides may want to reach out directly to voters, leading to more activity on both sides.
-	**After the Leave vote** (June 24th, 2016 — January 31st, 2020): with Leave victory, the discussion has shifted from 'if' to 'how'. From discussion around when to trigger article 50 (of Treaty of the European Union, which described an exit procedure from the EU), to the level of integration with the EU post-Brexit, to Northern Ireland issue and how leaving the EU fits with the framework of Good Friday Agreement, we may expect more arguments around minutiae of the Brexit process.

All of these events are summarized in the interactive timeline below. Take a look at it and feel free to navigate through it and follow the chronological narrative of Brexit. The three main eras contain the different events that build up to major occurrences.

<div style="width: 90%; margin: auto;">
  <iframe src='https://cdn.knightlab.com/libs/timeline3/latest/embed/index.html?source=1rUZ8lnDeUFUbarLvWre5TsEoaWmLEXF8dYLlWjfZDfo&font=Default&lang=en&initial_zoom=2&height=650' width='100%' height='650px' webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen frameborder='0'></iframe>
</div>
